First pass on a blog post about CVE-2019-5736. (#12592)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2019-02-11-runc-CVE-2019-5736.md

The most common source of risk is attacker-controller container images, such as unvetted images from public repositories.

### What Should I Do?

As with all security issues, the two main options are to mitigate the vulnerability or upgrade your version of runc to one that includes the fix.

As the exploit requires UID 0 within the container, a direct mitigation is to ensure all your containers are running as a non-0 user. This can be set within the container image, or via your pod specification:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: run-as-uid-1000
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
  # ...
```

This can also be enforced globally using a PodSecurityPolicy:

```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: non-root
spec:
  privileged: false
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  runAsUser:
    # Require the container to run without root privileges.
    rule: 'MustRunAsNonRoot'
```

Setting a policy like this is highly encouraged given the overall risks of running as UID 0 inside a container.

> Another potential mitigation is to ensure all your container images are vetted and trusted. This can be accomplished by building all your images yourself, or by vetting the contents of an image and then pinning to the image version hash (`image: external/someimage:1985144b2f29`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another potential mitigation is to ensure all your container images are vetted and trusted. This can be accomplished by building all your images yourself, or by vetting the contents of an image and then pinning to the image version hash (`image: external/someimage@sha256:7832659873hacdef`).
```

If I understand your comment about pinning to version hashes, ☝️ what I've suggested is the correct format for it. What is in your original image is just a tag.

---
title: Runc and CVE-2019-5736
date: 2019-02-11
---

This morning [a container escape vulnerability in runc was announced](https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2019/02/11/2). We wanted to provide some guidance to Kubernetes users to ensure everyone is safe and secure.

## What Is Runc?

Very briefly, runc is the low-level tool which does the heavy lifting of spawning a Linux container. Other tools like Docker, Containerd, and CRI-O sit on top of runc to deal with things like data formatting and serialization, but runc is at the heart of all of these systems.

Kubernetes in turn sits on top of those tools, and so while no part of Kubernetes itself is vulnerable, most Kubernetes installations are using runc under the hood.

### What Is The Vulnerability?

While full details are still embargoed to give people time to patch, the rough version is that when running a process as root (UID 0) inside a container, that process can exploit a bug in runc to gain root privileges on the host running the container. This then allows them unlimited access to the server as well as any other containers on that server.

> If the process inside the container is either trusted (something you know is not hostile) or is not running as UID 0, then the vulnerability does not apply. It can also be prevented by SELinux, if an appropriate policy has been applied. RedHat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, and Fedora all include appropriate SELinux permissions with their packages and so are believed to be unaffected.

Reviewer 2: The [official announcement](https://groups.google.com/a/opencontainers.org/forum/m/#!topic/dev/Tc1ELm-8oDI) explicitly calls out that the default Fedora policy is still vulnerable. Any reason to think otherwise?

Upgrading runc can generally be accomplished by upgrading the package `runc` for your distribution or by upgrading your OS image if using immutable images. This is a list of known safe versions for various distributions and platforms:

* Ubuntu - [`runc 1.0.0~rc4+dfsg1-6ubuntu0.18.10.1`](https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2019/CVE-2019-5736.html)
* Debian - [`runc 0.1.1+dfsg1-2`](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2019-5736)
* RedHat Enterprise Linux - [`docker 1.13.1-91.git07f3374.el7`](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/runcescape) (if SELinux is disabled)
* Amazon Linux - [`docker 18.06.1ce-7.25.amzn1.x86_64`](https://alas.aws.amazon.com/ALAS-2019-1156.html)
* CoreOS - [`2051.0.0`](https://coreos.com/releases/#2051.0.0)
* Kops Debian - [in progress](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/pull/6460)
* Docker - [`18.09.2`](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce/releases/tag/v18.09.2)

Some platforms have also posted more specific instructions:

#### Google Container Engine (GKE)

> Google has issued a [security bulletin](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/security-bulletins#february-11-2019-runc) with more detailed information but in short, if you are using the default GKE node image then you are safe. If you are using an Ubuntu or CoreOS node image then you will need to mitigate or upgrade to an image with a fixed version of runc.

Reviewer 2: Note that GKE does not support running with CoreOS images.
